So Lord Jesus, we just pray Lord that you
are, uh, glorified and magnified today.
Lord, through preaching and
Lord, just pray for Nick Lord.
I pray for his heart, uh, that he
continues to just lean into you Lord
today, as he speaks, may your truths
reign through his heart, through his
words and through your word Lord.
And we pray for lives to be changed
today, Lord, so we just pray this in here.
Have the name.
Amen.
Uh, thank you, Ben.
Uh, I am excited that you
guys are planning our church.
And I told our team, I said, listen,
our mission and our project, our, our
whole purpose to go to Cincinnati is
we want to encourage you guys because
we believe in what you're doing.
So thank you for being obedient.
Thank you for showing up here.
Week after week, helping
Ben and his family.
Uh, thank you for being a part of this and
having his desire to reach this community.
Uh, the reason I am really
excited about that is because I.
Not someone who grew up in church.
I was not a Christian from birth.
Neither were you, but you
understand what I'm saying?
I didn't grow up in church and,
uh, I didn't come to faith until,
uh, until I was in high school and
my family was, uh, very broken.
My father was a drug addict and, uh, I
dealt with those dynamics in my home.
You would.
Come into my home and it, it, you
wouldn't sense any presence of God
or , uh, anything wholly about it.
It was like the opposite.
And so, um, that was my family and I was a
teenager that was miserable and depressed
and, uh, struggling with, you know,
wondering if life was even worth living.
And, uh, I felt hopeless.
And so I was introduced to Christ as
a, as a 16 year old young man and, uh,
prayed in my bedroom to receive Christ.
And one of the things that changed
drastically in my life is I went
from someone who was hopeless
to someone who was hopeful.
And, uh, I love that your name
of your church is inspire hope
because that is the gospel.
The gospel is inspiring.
Hope in people who are hopeless.
Uh, and so today what I wanna do
is I wanna talk to you guys about
what it means to follow Christ.
And the things that I've learned
along the way, because I was a rookie,
uh, I didn't know, and understand
church lingo or church polity.
Uh, none of that made sense to me.
I didn't even know why people
did unspoken prayer requests.
I was like, I thought praying was like,
speaking, why would you unspoken it?
You know?
So I was, uh, I was naive to,
to a lot of things in church.
Uh, and the established churches that,
that happen are words that are being used.
I didn't understand the word
righteousness cuz people don't walk over.
Well, they do today.
That's righteous.
You know, guy guy says that on, uh, triple
D, but anyways, um, most people don't
walk around using words, righteousness
or holiness or justification.
And uh, I had no idea
what those words meant.
As a young man.
And so, um, I wanna just
share with you guys today.
Uh, it is good to be here and
our team is, is super excited
and we're from South Carolina.
We are about 20 minutes outside
of Greenville, South Carolina.
Uh, and we really like to say to, to
you guys that we're really only about
20 minutes from Clemson university.
Um, we know Ben is an Oklahoma guy.
They stole one of our football
coaches, but we're okay with that.
Uh, and, um, so we were there at
the foothills where the, uh, the
Appalachian mountains began and, uh,
we, we, we live in a beautiful place.
And so, but we're excited to be here in,
in Ohio, into to minister with you guys,
uh, today, if you have your Bible, go
ahead and turn to Matthew chapter 16.
Uh, I think some of these
will be on the screen.
You can follow along with.
Uh, and we're gonna jump into this
theme of following Jesus because
being a Christian, isn't about
just putting a label on yourself.
Uh, being a Christian
is about a lifestyle.
It's about a lifestyle that you're
embracing it's about your identity.
It's not just a, a tagline to who you are.
And so when you follow Christ, uh,
in our culture, uh, a lot of people
misunderstand what that means.
Some would say that means to be
associated with a church or to be
associated with this movement over here
or, uh, or different things like that.
But when we look at the scripture, uh,
Jesus himself is actually going to explain
what it really means to follow him and
the requirements that's laid out, uh, in
our culture, we use different things, um,
uh, to kind of communicate a following.
One of the most popular
right now is in social media.
We use a hashtag.
Uh, for you younger of older
folks, that's the pound sign.
Um, so, uh, we have these, uh, these
symbols that we use that is, uh,
used to connect groups or topics, uh,
people together, people use that to,
to try to get folks to follow a, uh,
um, a product or something, but that
symbol promotes unity and identity.
And many times those hashtags are
created intentionally to kind of
create following on social media.
So I think I have a picture
here of, of, of an example.
These are some guys over in Lockland.
When we came, uh, several months ago, a
team came up and was serving in Lockland
and, um, they have these hazmat suits
on and, uh, you know, they're getting
dirty and I was like, man, that's great.
So a great example would be,
you could take this picture post
on social media and go hashtag.
pound serve Lockland.
And that could kind of create some,
some kind of common, uh, threads there.
But I really like my version
of this picture that I made.
Um, it's the Lockland, um, PA Lupas
because I felt like they were, uh,
look ridiculous in that outfit.
And so I was like, these
guys, uh, I gotta get it.
So I, I made that picture of them.
I changed their faces around
to the little guys and sent
it back to 'em and was a haha.
And they, they didn't really think it was
funny, but so, um, So that's one way you
can use the hashtag it was an example.
Uh, but have you ever thought about
this when you start thinking about
social media, uh, and the idea of it?
Why, why do people get so consumed?
With that.
Why is it so alluring to
us as, as individuals?
I think sometimes it's because there's
a false promise of, of social connection
or even this idea of, of you have a
platform to be known your own avenue,
to be famous, uh, to promote yourself,
to promote your ideas, to remote what
you think life is, uh, all about.
And many people in our culture
use social media to grow their.
They use it to grow a following.
Maybe you would say, Hey, I
got 2000 friends on Facebook.
Like I got people like tracking with me.
Uh, or maybe you have 2000
followers on Instagram.
Um, you know, my, my generation,
I'm 36 years old, I think.
Yeah, that's right.
36, uh, people my age, we don't
have to do high school reunions
because we have Facebook.
We know what every, what everybody's
doing in their life already.
Right.
So it's like, it's one of those kind of.
But why is that?
Why is those things so valuable to us?
I think as people, we have
this position in our heart to
really follow after something.
uh, have you ever known a friend or
maybe you've been that type of person
where you've made a post on social
media and you just keep going back
to check it, see, who's liked it.
Who's commented on it.
Sometimes that's really fun.
Right.
But sometimes it can be a little
ridiculous of like how many times we
actually go back and check that thing.
Right.
There's something inside of me
craving something from that.
And I'm a person like, I
like to think about stuff.
I said, why is that true
for us as, as humans?
Like, why are we so engaged or so,
uh, drawn into that, think about this.
Have you ever seen people,
maybe you're one of these people
that's, uh, taken selfies, right?
Uh, this is a selfie culture.
Like some of you guys are like,
yeah, some of you have speed birth.
And, uh, it is like I have, uh,
three daughters and a son, two
of my daughters are teenagers.
And so I get.
It's uh, selfie sometimes, uh, my phone
and pictures are connected to their
phones and sometimes it's overwhelmed.
I'm like, how many pictures
of your face do we need?
Uh, so, uh,  sometimes they look on my
phone and there's pictures of my face.
You know, they're like, dad, what is this?
I was like, nah, don't worry about it.
Um, so, uh, but here's the thing.
We use these platforms.
Uh, we use social media things
to, to really promote ourself.
And I don't know if you realize
this, but our culture is
absolutely obsessed with pitchers.
We obsessed with, uh, pitchers
way more than what people realize.
Uh, it takes in these days, human
beings on the planet earth take almost
1 trillion photos a year, 1 trillion
photos a year to put that in context
as more photos, every few minutes
than the entirety of the 19th century.
If you took the whole 19th century and
you could tally the photos taken during
that time, we blow that out of the water
in just a few minutes in today's society.
Like, I don't even know
what to do with my photos.
I'm at a room on my phone and I'm
like, I don't know what to do.
Should I pay $10 a month so I
could take more photos and have
more cloud space on my phone.
Some of you know, what I'm talking
about, or we have that miserable
experience when we get a new.
And the new phone doesn't have because
of the program and the software on
that phone, it takes up more data.
And, but we can't get everything
from our old phone to the new phone,
and then we gotta make decisions.
What's one of these photos,
what am I gonna get rid of?
It's a problem.
We, before I finished speaking
today, 300 million Instagram photos
will be of up uploaded 300 million.
Uh, I don't know why.
This is where we are as a culture.
But one thing I've realized when
you kind of survey this is we
have an example in front of us.
That's, that's glaring at us that
we are obsessed with ourself.
We are obsessed with self and we, we
dive in and we tap into things that give
us opportunities to indulge ourself.
and, uh, I don't think it's a bad thing.
If you take selfies, like I, that's fine.
You can take selfies.
I'm not trying to throw you under the bus.
I take selfies too, but our culture is so
different than what it was 20 years ago.
And I would argue that it's so different
than what it was 10 years ago, but one
thing has stayed the cha the one thing
has stayed the same as people want
to feel valued, want to be accepted.
But they're trying to do that
by accomplishing things through
themselves for themselves.
See, here's a problem, Christianity
isn't about finding and accepting
yourself or discovering who you are or
finding your value or, or embracing who
you are by the perspectives of other
people, uh, or building a following.
Christianity is actually
about losing yourself.
it's about giving up who you are and
accepting who Christ says you are.
It's about accepting and the value
that God has given you already
in Christ and not worrying or not
looking for that in anywhere else.
It's about following.
It's not about who we're following.
It's about.
It's not about who's following us.
It's about who we are following Jesus
boldly, proclaims that Christianity.
Is about losing yourself.
So we're gonna look here at this
passage, Matthew 16, if you have your
Bibles, you can turn Matthew 1621,
and we're gonna see that Jesus is
teaching some pretty radical statements.
Our, our introduction
slide was radical rabbi.
Um, he had some really radical teachings
and this has been for me, this, this verse
that we're gonna kind of camp out on, uh,
when Jesus says, if you come follow me in
verse 24, this has become my life verse.
And it's been a verse that if
you're at my church and student
ministry is on the t-shirt, it's on.
If I sign my name in your
card, I sign this verse.
And I usually use Luke 9 23
because it's actually in all the
gospels and different variations.
Uh, but.
Um, this has been such an important
verse to me because it was as a, as
a new believer who didn't have any
church background, any context of
what it meant to really follow Christ.
I was really confused by what people
were doing and what people were
saying and how it looked for this
person, how it looked for this person.
And so when I got down to the nitty
gritty of who it, who it was, uh, what
Jesus was saying, this verse became
just that, that, that beacon of.
It gave me direction.
Uh, and it helped me to find
my purpose as a follower of
Christ, what it really meant.
So couple things leading up
to this is, uh, Matthew 16.
Uh, Peter, one of Jesus' disciples, uh,
is, is, is being basically praised because
Jesus is who do people say that I am.
And, and Peter's like,
you're, you're the Messiah.
You're the son of God.
And Jesus is like, man, bless it.
Are you Peter?
this has been revealed to
you by my father in heaven.
Bless it.
Or you all right.
So we're getting into this next
verse where immediately Jesus says,
listen, guys, I'm about to die.
Some things are about to happen
and I'm gonna give my life.
And Peter immediately
jumps up and says no way.
So Jesus goes from like, bless it.
Are you Peter?
Like you're the devil now get behind me.
Sat.
And it's like all in this one
transition, and I don't know about
you, but I have kids and I can just
imagine the other disciples were
like, Ooh, let's see what happens.
Like Peter just went from being like, he's
the best disciple then Jesus just called
him the devil, like this is extreme.
Right.
Uh, and then, so in response to that,
Jesus kinda lays down the groundwork.
If you're gonna follow
me, , this is what you gotta do.
And so let's look at
this passage, verse 21.
From that time on Jesus began to
explain his to his disciples, that
he must go to Jerusalem and he must
suffer many things at the hands of the
elders, chief priest and teachers of
the law, and then he must be killed.
And on the third day be raised to life.
Peter took him aside, began
to rebuke him, never Lord.
He said, this shall never happen to.
Jesus turned and said to Peter,
get behind me, Satan, you
are a stomaching block to me.
You do not have in mind the things
of God, but the things of men.
So here we see that Jesus is, is
rebuking Peter and correcting him.
All right.
So he lays the groundwork.
He says, listen, Peter, you
can't that last verse there, 23,
you're a stumbling block to me
because you have the mind in mind.
The thing, not the things of
God, but the things of men.
If you want to be a disciple,
look at verse 24, verse 24.
Then Jesus said to his disciples,
if anyone would come after me,
if anyone's gonna come after me,
he must deny himself, take up his
cross and follow me for whoever
wants to save his life will lose it.
But whoever loses his
life for me will find.
What good will it be for a man if
he gains the whole world yet for
forfeit his soul, or what can a
man give an exchange for his soul?
For the son, a man's going to come in
his father's glory with his angels,
and then he will reward each person
according to what he has done.
So Jesus is turning this and he says,
listen, Peter, you are blessed because God
has revealed to you that I am the Messiah.
You believe that you're blessed, Peter.
But if you just go and you try to do
this thing called Christianity, if
you try to do this thing of called
following Jesus in your own way,
you're like Satan, you're gonna be a
stumbling block to what I want to do.
And what's necessary.
See, being a Christian, being a follower
Christ is about following Jesus.
If you're not following Jesus,
it's hard to associate and
call yourself a Christian.
Right.
You can say, I go to church
and, and all kind of things.
So, what we're gonna do is we're
gonna camp out on verse 24.
And I wanna break that down because
in glance you could say, Hey, that's
pretty, that's pretty awesome.
Like you gotta deny yourself, take
up your cross and just follow him.
That's amazing.
But I, what I've learned over the years
is I've studied this and just I've repeat
this to myself on a weekly basis at times.
And I've learned that there's so
much more to that it's so deep, so
complex, so simple at the same time.
And that sometimes we miss just the
most obvious, most direct statements of
what it really means to follow Christ.
So I wanna walk us through that.
The first one is deny
yourself at the surface.
It sounds fine because we probably
all have denied ourselves.
Some something, maybe, maybe you drove
by flubs last night and you saw that
line and you was like, Ooh, I don't know,
like that strawberry cheesecake, uh,
what's those things called those mixer.
Uh, what.
Cyclone.
Okay.
There we go.
Strawberry.
That's what I got.
That thing was amazing.
I'm I want another one.
So, uh, the strawberry cheesecake cyclone,
maybe that's your go-to you have this
desire, but you like, ah, it's too late.
I don't know if I got five extra dollars.
Ah, I'm just gonna say no to myself.
I'm gonna deny myself and you drive on
or maybe you're like, you know, I really
haven't been doing well with my eating.
And being healthy and things like that.
So I'm gonna deny myself that
chocolate cake that I want.
I'm gonna deny myself going to skyline.
Uh, we went there with our team.
Uh, it was incredible.
Love that chili.
Um, anyways, uh  but Jesus is
talking about so much more than that.
If you go to the context of this
passage and you really camp out and
look at what he's saying, , he's not
just saying, say no to your favorite
drinks or soft drinks or chocolate cake.
This idea of denying yourself that Jesus
is talking about is a radical concept.
He is talking about turning away
from the idolatry of self worship.
Now, listen, this is the, this is,
this is who we are as a culture.
Our culture is built.
The foundation of who we are in
this culture is to worship ourself.
It's, it's really the foundation of who
we are as sinful people in, in general.
It is where the sin in the garden.
It was all it all started about.
It was with self.
So I, I found some quotes of some
very wise people in this culture
who I think represent our culture,
uh, and what our culture stands for.
Uh, this is Ellen DeGeneres.
And it says, uh, find out who you are
and be that person that's your soul.
That's what your soul was put on this
earth to be, find that truth, live that
truth and everything else will come.
Now here's another wise person
that's speaking to culture.
Taylor swift.
Just be yourself.
There's no one better.
When you look at Taylor and Ellen,
nobody's like, you know, they're,
they're not really philosophers.
And these statements that they're
saying they're applauded so much in
our culture, like, yeah, that is true.
That is that's right.
Just be yourself.
Nobody else.
There's no one better.
Or just look at your heart,
whatever you de, oh, excuse me,
whatever you desire, go and do it.
That is what it's all about.
And, and, and, and, but
here, Ellen and Taylor.
, they're not like super wise philosophers.
They're just regurgitating what
our culture believes and it, when
you hear it, like for me, and
maybe for you, it sounds right.
Because most of everybody,
we come in contact with says,
this is what life is about.
Ralph WATO Emerson, I
think was very honest.
He wasn't a believer.
This is the way he said it.
I will not hide my taste or versions.
I will.
So trust that what is deep is holy
that I will do strongly before the sun
and the moon, whatever only rejoices
me and what the heart appoints.
Ralph Waldo, Emerson, man, this
sounds right, but here's the problem.
When you take this philosophy and
you take this idea of our culture
and you compare it to what Christ
says, it is the polar opposite.
See Jesus says that if you're going to
follow me the first thing you must, if
you're writing your Bibles, underline
that word must you must deny yourself.
That means you must stop worshiping self.
You must lay down your
own, will your own desires.
We, we we've come to the understanding
as followers of Christ, that
our nature is not something
that we can trust or embrace.
Jeremiah tells us that our
heart is deceitful and that
we must not just embrace it.
God tells us an zeal that he will
put a new heart inside of you.
That new heart he'll take out
that star, that heart of stone.
He'll replace it with a heart with his,
his law, his commandments written on it.
A desire to please and honor him.
See when you are a Christian,
you are a follower of Christ.
We are not living our own life.
We're laying our lives down.
We're submitting our bodies, as it
would say, Romans 12 as a living S.
And we're saying, God, here I am.
Take me Christ.
L Paul said, it's not I that live,
but Christ that live in me, we
can't just embrace who we are.
Jesus.
Isn't asking us to do something that he
hasn't already done, or he hasn't modeled.
John 6 38 says this Jesus speaking.
He says, boy, I've come down from
having not to do my will, but to
do the will of him who sent me.
in Philippians.
Paul is speaking to the church of Philippi
and he's talking to other believers
and he says the same attitude and
mindset that Jesus had you should have.
And this is what he said.
He says, your attitude should be
the same as that of Christ Jesus,
who being in the very nature.
God did not consider equality with
God, something to be grasped, but
made himself nothing by taking
the very nature of a servant.
Being made in human likeness and
being found in appearance as a man,
he humbled himself and became obedient
to death, even death on a cross
self, self denial, denying yourself.
Isn't a recommendation.
It's a re requirement.
It's a, it's a prerequisite
to following Christ.
Jesus said, if anyone desires to follow
me, they must first deny themself.
This means we have to be
willing to lay our lives down.
And surrender that under the Lordship,
the kingship of who Jesus is.
Many times people kind of live
their life as, as in, if there was
in their heart, there's a bench.
And, and like, uh, you know, you're
playing basketball and like, you
have a chair and you're like, Hey,
come sit down beside me, buddy.
Jesus doesn't want to come
sit on a bench in your heart.
In fact, he won't, I, I like to think of
this idea that our heart there's a throne.
Neither you are sitting on that throne
ruling your life, or if you're a
follower of Christ, you get off of
that throne and you kneel and you
allow Jesus to sit on the throne of
your life and you submit, listen, it
affects all aspects of who you are.
It's not something that just shows up
on a Sunday morning or shows up when
you're around your pastor or your church.
People it's like you can't help it
because when you've surrendered to
Christ and you're denying yourself,
Jesus is the king of the Kings.
He's, he's the king over your life.
He's calling the shots.
He's the boss.
And when he's calling the shots, there's
a, there's a response, a responsibility
that we have to say, yes, Lord.
Right?
Because we understand who he is.
He's not just a nice guy.
Listen, if Jesus is just a nice guy
and a great teacher, we're all wasting
our time, but he's not he's God.
And, but because of who he is, he
has the authority and he deserves
the authority of, of our life.
And we give it to him by denying
ourselves, we lay our lives down.
We give up everything, our ambitions, our
desires, our dreams, our plans, oh man.
We're Americans.
We gotta have a plan.
Right.
It's got our plan.
We have to have a plan for our
plan so that we can have a plan.
Some of y'all are laughing cuz you're
that kind of per that kind of person.
I am just a little bit okay.
If I'm just being confessional
here, but we are self dependent.
self resilient, self pursuing, and we
have to give up those character traits.
Any attempt at discipleship does
that does not involve renouncing full
autonomy and self love is not an actual
attempt to follow Jesus meaningfully.
When you follow Jesus, you
walk away from yourself.
We make him a master.
First, we must remove
ourselves from that position.
This example is throughout the entirety
of scripture, when you look at the
new Testament, every gospel, every,
uh, letter written to the church,
there's, there's undertones of this self
denial, giving up, turning away, laying
down, uh, it's all throughout here.
And we, a lot of times, as me as an
American, I just can glaze over that.
Because that does, that's not
compatible with my nature.
Right.
Which is why the next part
of this is really important.
Jesus said, the second thing you
must do is take up your cross.
Now I'm the type of person I would, I
don't have a cross necklace on, but I
definitely would wear a cross necklace.
I would have a cross t-shirt when I got
saved and, and I started going to college.
I was kind of weird and I was this guy.
I made some Jesus pants.
All right.
And so my Jesus pants, like I took a
cross and I painted a big cross on my
leg and I just up and down every leg,
I wrote Bible verses and put Jesus
fish and king of Kings, Lord of Lords.
And I would wear 'em to college.
And my professors, I had
professors that called me weird.
Mean names in front of the whole class.
Uh, they would like distinctive,
like instinctively, like question
me on my positions of stuff.
I guess I was like a target, you
know, I was like making a target
on myself, but it was interesting.
Uh, so I'm not against crosses.
I'm not against those kind of
logos and ideas, but I think
sometimes when we read this to us,
the cross is a beautiful image.
it represents God's grace and his
mercy and his forgiveness, right.
To us.
We cherish that to the people.
Jesus is speaking to in this
passage, it's a horrific image.
It would be like, it would be
like wearing a noose around your
neck, walking around, like, like,
look how beautiful this noose is.
People would be like, that's horrific.
Why would you put that on your neck?
That's what it's like.
Jesus says, take up your cross.
It has that same connotation.
Of it, it would be like saying,
Hey, come Lynch yourself.
It'd like, no, what?
That's bogus.
That's weird.
That's radical.
No, that's, uh, absurd in Jesus'
day across was a disgusting thing.
It represented crucifixion.
In fact, in the public circle, it
was frowned upon to even use the word
crucifixion or terms it was seen as VUL.
Like almost like cussing.
All right.
Uh, so it, it was horrific, it was cruel.
The Roman empire used the cross as a
symbol of, of crucifixion when people
were criminalized or, or criminals.
And it was, it was a, it
was a symbol of execution.
Now, listen, it wasn't just a method.
It was, it was also a, a
persuasion of intimidation.
You know, it was like the Roman government
was like, if you go against us,  yeah.
See this cross as you buddy, you come
against us, you go against the system,
you try to rebel, you try to overthrow us.
Here's what's waiting on you as his cross.
And Jesus is speaking to his followers.
He's saying, Hey, come take up your cross.
That image that was in their
mind is much different than the
one that comes to mind for us.
Thankfully, Jesus, isn't
asking his followers.
To come die by execution though.
There are many people around the world
who do die because of their faith
because of their obedience to Christ.
Jesus is talking about dying to yourself,
a radical dying of self-centered living.
The other parts of scripture
would say, crucify yourself,
Galatians 5 24, Galatians five 20.
Um, is you're maybe familiar
with the fruits of the spirit
at the end of that passage.
Uh, apostle Paul talks about this.
He says those who belong to Jesus
have crucified the sinful nature
with its passions and desires, same
imagery, those who follow Jesus
are those who deny themselves.
Who are crucifying our sinful nature.
Now, can I be a, can I
just be honest with you?
Like, there's a lot of things I don't
like about myself that I wish were
different and then my own power in my own
strength, I have no ability to change it.
I'll give you an example.
I struggle with depression,
uh, and, uh, I hate that.
It's like a thorn in my
flesh, you know what I mean?
Like, I don't want it to be there.
I don't.
And it's like, I used to think
like, well, maybe I'm a pastor, you
know, maybe I get more spiritual.
If I just read my Bible more,
pray more and go to church more.
This will go away.
Well, it didn't, and it hasn't, it
doesn't overcome my life, but it's there
at times and I have to deal with it.
It's a, a thorn in my flesh.
Uh, I've struggled with other sins.
Not that depression's not a sin.
I don't believe that.
Let me clarify that.
I struggle with other sins though.
Things that are, that I
wish were not in my life.
I have a, a bad habit of having a negative
attitude where I'm just like, I grew
up in a home where it was all negative.
And so I have this, sometimes
this sinful disposition, like
when things are not going, right.
I just go into this funk where
I'm just like, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
You know, like it's just like my.
That's my sin nature.
If I don't lay down my life daily
to Jesus Christ, that's who you get.
My kids have seen that person at times.
My wife, my pastor has seen that guy
sometimes showing up to staff, meeting.
Maybe other people in this room have seen
that I'm a human being and just like you,
I have to lay down my life, deny myself.
And allow the power of Jesus
that lives in me as a believer.
The Bible tells us greater as he, that
is in me, in me than he is in this world.
And I have to allow that holy spirit
power to crucify my sin nature.
What does he say daily?
Take up your cross daily.
Gotta crucify it.
If I, if I fall behind or I'm
not being, uh, subject to Jesus
in that way, it will show up.
It will rear its ugly head
up in my life and it will be
noticeable to me and to others.
It's important to follow Christ when we
are doing that, we're making ourselves
subject to rejection and ridicule.
Another part of the cross was it was
a public demonstration for the Romans.
It was a public execution, but to
follow Christ is a public call to put
your life and your faith on display.
When, when people would carry their
cross, they would be walking through town.
Their bodies had been beaten.
Their clothes would be
stripped off of them.
They were being mocked and ridiculed.
People were stepping back to take
notice and the busyness of the
day they would stop and watch.
It was a spectacle.
It was a display of the Roman government's
power and their authority and their
horrific, uh, the, the, the things
they would do to, to, to secure that.
And Jesus is saying, if you're gonna
follow me, you must deny yourself.
You must be willing to crucify your flesh.
And I want you to understand that part
of that call to take up your cross
daily is to live your life publicly for.
Is publicly not privately publicly.
It is so important.
Now let me clarify that.
I do not believe that this idea of
taking up your cross is a method or
way where you're saving yourself.
No, no, no, no, no.
Hear me out.
Okay.
Taking up your cross is, is really
an act of obedience and love because
Jesus took up his cross to save.
see, he did it first and those who follow
Christ, basically we love the Lord.
We love God because he first loved us.
And when you've experienced that
grace and forgiveness that, that
natural retaliation or that natural
next step is to love him back.
Right?
It's like you've experienced
God's forgiveness in your life
when you know what you deserve.
And he withholds that from you.
Or God blesses you in spite of your
sin and what you struggle with and what
you've dealt with that is who God is.
That's his character and what God
loves with this unconditional love.
We get to love him back.
And how do we love him back with
the, by following him, by being
obedient to him, by having a desire
that doesn't mean you're perfect
that you won't make mistakes.
No, you will.
I do  trust me, but it means.
That we will have a desire to go for it.
Many people claim Christ through
a commitment to social justice
or moral uprightness or positive
feelings in regard to the gospel.
But when you boil it all down, that's
really, that's really not what it is.
Claiming.
Christ is about radically experiencing
the grace and forgiveness of God
and radically obeying Christ.
Because we have been set free.
We've been set free to do that.
The Bible tells us that
Jesus sets you free.
He sets you free from your sin in Roman
six, it says you're a slave to sin sins.
Your master Jesus comes.
He sets you free.
Now you're no longer a master to your sin.
You have a new master.
If you look at the apostle Paul,
he would call himself a slave of.
A bond servant to Jesus Christ, all
these titles and things that he would
use was identifying his position is that
Christ is greater than I, I am under him.
I am he, I am his servant and there
is nothing in me, nothing about me.
That that is good without the
work of Jesus Christ, Paul
boasted about his sin, right?
He says, I'm the chief sinner.
I'm the worst of all you guys.
I've Cru I've, I've killed Christians.
I've persecuted a church.
He said, but God's grace, I'm the
chief center, but God's grace covered
a multitude of sins in my life.
His love is greater.
And I want you to know that today,
maybe you hear this and you go, Ooh,
man, I ain't meeting any of this.
Like, I'm just like, Ooh, I don't know.
I don't want you to walk outta here with
this sense of, uh, of dark cloud looming.
I want you to hear the hope of this is
that Jesus is just saying surrender to.
there's no work that you have to
do other than inviting him into
your heart and saying I'm yours
and giving over surrendering, quit
fighting your own battle, right?
Raise that white flag in your heart
and say, I surrender to king Jesus.
There's no external works that
you have to perform or do before
God will show up in your life.
Really it's about just
giving up and allowing.
to sit on the throne of your life.
Just get out of the
way and let God be God.
And you take you take the sidekick rail.
That's what Jesus is calling us too.
If we believe that we believe
as Christ would say that we
die to live, we die to live.
Jesus said in John chapter 12.
And, uh, we're gonna be closing
up here in just a second.
He said the hour has come for
the Sunman to be glorified.
I tell you the truth.
Unless a Colonel wheat falls
to the ground and dies.
It remains only a single seed, but
if it dies, it produces many seeds.
The man who loves his life will lose it.
And the man who hates his life, uh, in
this world will keep it for eternal life.
Whoever serves me must
follow me and where I am.
My servant also will be my father.
My father will honor.
The one who serves me listening
in God's economy to gain is
to first lose in this economy.
It's get what you can get while you can
get it because the getting's getting gone.
Y'all made, that's a common
Southern kind of thing.
So sorry if that was you better
get it while you can get it.
Cause the GI getting good and
getting, getting gone, like.
you better get it.
It's about acquiring what
you can while you can.
How many of you guys remember
the toilet paper crisis?
We had, that's an example.
You better get it when you get it.
People were like texting, go
to Sam's now go to Sam's club.
Now I saw a truck pull in.
I swear there was toilet paper
on their truck go to Sam's now.
And people were like, you know, It's not
a, that's not what following Christ is.
That's not what the
kingdom of God is about.
The kingdom of God is this guys
listen over and over and over again.
Jesus explains this through
parables and his teachings.
It's in the, every gospel it's
in every book in the Bible.
Just about this concept of when you lay
down, when you give up, you give you
sacrifice, you commit, you surrender
from the viewpoint of this world.
You are losing.
But God says, I don't think so.
From his perspective, you just laid
the groundwork for him to show up
and to blow you outta the water,
with what he can do in your life.
As long as you're trying
to live your life.
Why do you think God, God's not gonna
show up and just amaze everybody.
You have to like, say,
God, I can't do this.
And he says, I know I'm waiting for
you to come to that realization.
To humble yourself, get out of the way.
And let me show you how
mighty, how powerful I am.
That's what surrender means, but in our
Western society, we've lost that concept.
So I wanna ask you a question today.
Do you follow Jesus?
And if you do, have you denied yourself?
Are you willing to take up your
cross daily and follow him publicly?
If not, I want to encourage
you today to consider that.
And maybe you are a
believer and I get this.
Maybe you're a believer and you're like,
oh man, I hadn't really been doing this.
Hey, I'm a pastor.
And I have to admit that at
times, like, uh, I hadn't really
been doing this that great.
I've been really focused on myself a lot.
I get it.
We battle that constantly.
But the answer to that is still the
same surrender, surrender to Jesus.
Lay your life down.
Maybe that's you, maybe you're
here today and you've never
made that decision period.
You're like this Jesus.
Thing's weird.
I get it.
I used to think Christians were like,
I was like, dude, they're freaky.
Like they're weird people.
Like they're doing these things
and saying things it's like
almost a different language.
Who says that who's doing that.
Like I thought it was weird.
And I remember as a kid walking
into a church and, and going like,
this is kind of weird and everybody
would bow their heads all at the
same time, all their eyes closed.
And I was like, I ain't closing my eyes.
Like, I don't know, like somebody
and they would pass the plate and I'd
be like, are they handing out money?
Or are they putting money in there?
Like, and they were like,
no, you don't take it.
I was like, oh, okay.
And you know, like,  that's
who I was, but I remember that.
And maybe you're that kind of person
you're like, man, I don't know.
Or maybe you've been hurt by
church or hurt by another believer.
Can I just say something like
we're all sinful people, we all
make mistakes and Christianity.
Isn't about perfection.
It's about surrendering our
life to the one who is perfect.
So I wanna ask our worship team.
Will you guys come up and I'm
gonna pray if God's leading today,
I just wanna ask you to respond.
Just to say, Hey, I, I wanna pray.
I want, I want a closer walk with God.
You know, I wanna, I wanna give
myself to Christ, like you talked
about today, you can go read that
in mark chapter eight, Luke chapter
nine, or Matthew 16, John chapter 12.
It's in every gospel.
Christ is calling us.
Maybe you're here today and
you need to respond to that.
You just move as gods sees.
I'll be standing to the side,
your pastor then to be here.
If you need to come talk about giving
your life to Christ or taking another
step in your faith, do it today.
Father, we just thank you for
your grace and your mercy.
And I just pray Lord that you would
move as you see F God be honored.
This is for your glory in Jesus name.
Amen.